Now, I touched on this, but
Angular, TypeScript, HTML, and CSS,
those are the three parts you need to know
for Angular, TypeScript, HTML, and CSS.
If you are at home and let's say you
don't have any TypeScript experience,
your JavaScript experience will
be enough to get you there,
because the TypeScript stuff is just
really JavaScript with Types involved.
And just being able to describe the
objects and data that you're working with.
TypeScript is very complex in
terms of how far you can go.
You can go as far as you want
with complexity in TypeScript.
But for this course,
you don't need that experience, right?
Your JavaScript skills will
help you read the code and
we will do examples that work for you.
Now, at the core, at the bottom level,
right, you need components in Angular.
They're like the fundamental building
block of any application, okay?
The fundamental building
block of any application.
So you got TypeScript for
your logic in your component.
So you have a component
class with TypeScript.
Your templates are made with HTML, okay?
And this isn't like our version of HTML,
it's just HTML.
So if you have HTML skills,
you use that with the application.
And then let's say you're styling,
you use CSS.
But we also support SAS and LESS if you
wanna use one of those preprocessors.
You can also use a CSS
preprocessor if you'd like.
But again, here's some of the strengths,
right, cuz people wonder,
why would I use Angular?
Well, if you already had HTML skills,
and let's say you were a CSS wizard and
you knew how to build incredible UIs,
directly transferable skills, right?
You use that same stuff,
not a special Angular version of CSS,
your same CSS skills, apply your
same HTML like knowledge applies.
So all these you know, for accessibility,
you bring all this stuff right in, and
it just works out of the box, okay?
Now, how do you actually
build a component in Angular?
So let's start from the very beginning of
building a component in Angular, very,
very top level, okay?
Yeah, your component,
you gotta import it at the file level.
Okay, we import at the file
level from Angular.
Then we use this pattern
called decorators.
Give me your hands up if you
seen a decorator before?
Maybe in Java,
any Java developers in the room?
Yeah, okay, so decorators,
you've seen this magic before.
But a decorator just allows you
to take a property or a class and
add some behavior to it, okay?
We're gonna add some behavior to it.
This decorator, the component decorator,
lets us take what would normally
be just a TypeScript class and
imbue it with magical powers
that make it a component, right?
It just makes it very special, okay?
Now, this decorator takes some properties.
Let's look at the properties.
First thing you do, because components
are referenced in our HTML templates,
you gotta give it a tag name,
like a selector, we call it selector.
Yeah, questions.
>> Do decorators work similarly
to extending classes?
I don't know if that's
a completely accurate way,
because when you extend the class here,
that's more about inheritance, right?
Versus decorator is more
about just adding things on.
>> Like an interface?
>> Almost like an interface, right?
So where your interface is behavior that
you can add to your class versus saying,
I inherit the behavior of this other
thing and now I have new behavior,
my own behavior on top of it.
But you're not inheriting anything
with a component decorator,
you're just gonna be adding on things.
So think about your car.
Okay, here's the good way
to think about your car.
You can add on a spoiler
to the back of your car and
that will decorate your car, right?
And now the spoiler has all the
aerodynamic changes that add it to your
car, which your car is still the same car,
you take it off, it's still the same car,
right, at the core.
And so think about a decorator like that.
You can add things onto a car
to give it more things.
You can add on some Nitros or
some boosting, okay?
Hopefully that answers your question.
Thanks for a good question.
Okay, standalone: true.
Now, one of the things in
Angular's history was that we had
this thing called modules that
were really good in theory.
We thought it was a good idea.
It was a good idea, except for
at scale, it became problematic.
And I'll tell that story a little bit
more throughout the day of where there
are things that we've changed now, because
at the time, it was a good idea, and
then at scale, we found trouble or
problems with it from the community.
You used to need something called a module
which handled all of your dependencies for
your application.
So you're like, this component is going
to reference A, B, and C service.
So I have a module that will organize
that for me, and then I'll know, hey,
whatever is in this module is
available to these components.
That sounds great.
Yeah, the right abstraction layer,
except for
it became confusing,
because was it a Ng Angular module, or
was it a ECMAScript module,
or was it a CommonJS module?
Did it have the same behavior?
Were they related?
And they weren't even related.
And then when you had a large application,
again, at scale, you had so
many modules that it created a level
of indirection where you couldn't
be sure where things belong anymore,
right, and it became more complex.
And so we made modules optional.
But in order to do that, we have to add
a new flag called standalone: true, okay?
So that's means you don't need a module.
So whatever you get in this component
is what you get, it's this stuff, okay?
Then you have your template string.
Now, your template string is
just a regular string, but
you can also make this separate
into a file if you want.
So what are the rules around that?
Because I know people are gonna
be thinking about this.
I be reading y'all mind at home,
I already know.
But Mark,
what if my template is really big?
You're right.
If the template is huge, you can separate
this into a separate .html file.
So for small templates, put it in line.
There's just less files to manage.
For large templates,
take it out, take it out.
Somebody else can work on that while you
work on the class or the logic, right?
You can separate things like that.
Okay, styles, the same idea.
Styles is a string in your component,
or you can make it a separate file,
all right?
Same idea, if you've got a lot of styles,
separate them.
Here's what's interesting about styles
though, they're scoped in Angular.
So they don't leak out of your component.
So you can define styles for
things like a P tag, for example,
that will be scoped to your component but
not leak out to the rest
of your application, which makes
your components really reusable.
Because now you can say, well, I have all
these styles that are for my, let's say,
user profile component, custom stuff that
I wrote up, and I could just take that and
plop it anywhere else in my application
and those styles will not conflict,
because they're scoped to the component.
I know that feels good.
When I first saw that myself, I thought,
ooh, that feels good, I like that idea.
All right, and
then you have our component class,
which if you don't have any logic,
it can be an empty class.
But you cannot do functions, why?
We don't support function components.
And we get that question a lot like,
will we support function components?
And the answer is,
there is no answer right now.
We don't see the value yet
that'll help move everyone forward.
Right now, class components solve
the problems that the community has and
that's what we're sticking with right now,
okay?
But we'll never say never, right?
Because, again, at scale over time,
you learn lessons, and you have to adjust.
But for now,
know the function components, okay?
And so this AppComponent class could
stand alone without this decorator, and
it would still be a valid
TypeScript class.
But remember, I talked about the car
example with the spoiler, right?
We add the decorator on there,
now a special.
It can do some extra stuff.
Questions from our community, sure.
>> Can you still use a global style sheet?
>> Yes, you can.
Excellent question,
can you still use a global style sheet?
If we were to look back at our
application, you'll actually see that,
let's see, well,
we can look in this one, in the source.
So there's my app, but
then we got styles.css.
This is global, so for that first example,
I want every component to
inherit the font family, right,
every element that to have
this font family, and
I can put whatever I want
in this global style.
Yeah, it's good.
Good question, I love that question.
All right, so
remember how we talked about the format?
I'll do some stuff, we'll look at the
example, and then we'll do it together.
So let's get back into the code.
So now, let's go back to this project,
the one we just ran.
And now, if you open up the README,
I have some tasks.
I got some tasks.
So if you open up the README,
did you know in VS Code that you could
preview a README in here by doing
Cmd+Shift+V or Ctrl+Shift+V?
And if you didn't know, now you know.
Check this out.
[SOUND] Look at that, really nice.
Okay, so now,
we can see what our task are.
So if you wanna run this example,
there are the steps.
But here's what I want you to do.
Let's go in here and
let's make these changes.
I'll do this one with us, and
then we'll see as the day goes on,
I'll get a feel for how everyone's doing,
and maybe I'll let you try some
of them on your own first.
But for this one, let's do it together and
go through all the steps together.
Okay, so our first step, we need to
create an ordered list with three of our
favorite books, movies, or songs.
Okay, where should we do that?
Can somebody just yell it out for me?
Where should we do that?
>> The component?
>> App component?
>> Right, in app.component.ts, that's
right, that's where we should do that.
Okay, so let's go and make sure
that we find and track all of that,
in app.component.ts under
our Hello Angular project.
We open that up.
So the first thing was we
had to make our ordered list.
How do you make an ordered list?
>> ol.
Yeah, ol, I don't ask trick questions,
I promise.
The reason why I'm asking you folks
what to do is because I want you to feel
comfortable because this is a new framework for
some of you, right?
I want you to feel comfortable
just jumping in and doing stuff.
So trust your instincts.
So we make our ordered list.
And I asked you for your favorite songs,
movies, or books, I think.
So I'll do one of each, okay?
So my favorite song right now.
What is my favorite song right now
at the time of this recording?
Hmm, there's a lot of good song.
[LAUGH] all right, friends at home,
I need a commitment from you
right now that this is a safe space and
a judgment-free zone.
Because the song that
I love right now that
I cannot stop with is ETA by NewJeans.
Now, NewJeans is this K-pop band,
and I know, that's what I'm saying.
And they have a hold on me right now,
I can't break it.
It's in my brain, I mean, I'm actually
writing a solo for this song on guitar,
because I like it so much, so I'm like,
I'm gonna add a solo to this.
And yeah, the song is so good.
Do you feel good?
All right, stop, let's keep going on.
All right, we'll add another one,
I'll keep moving faster, sorry.
I don't wanna tell too many stories.
All right, let's keep going.
One of my favorite books
is Ready Player One.
And this is by, I cannot think
of the author's name right now.
All of a sudden, my brain is going blank.
Let's go, we'll come back to it.
Somebody on the chat tell me the author of
Ready Player One, cuz I can't remember.
All right, favorite movie, somebody
give me one of your favorite movies,
if you're comfortable.
>> Dodgeball.
>> Dodgeball, if you can dodge a wrench,
you can dodge a ball, that's right.
[LAUGH] That's a really good one.
Yeah, I like that.
All right, awesome, awesome,
how can we tell if this even worked?
>> Go back to the browser.
>> Go back to the browser,
that's right, no trick questions.
So to run this example, I do ng serve
from the command line in my project,
and I type in the name of the project.
And just a quick note about this,
this ng serve hello-world,
you don't have to do this if you
don't have a multi-project workspace.
You just do ng serve if
you have a single project.
But because I have a multi-project
workspace, I gotta specify my project.
>> Someone said, Ernest Cline.
>> Ernest Cline,
that's right, that's right.
Okay, so this isn't working.
Did I-
>> hello-angular.
>> It's hello-angular.
Well, look how helpful
we're trying to be here.
This error message is awesome, because it
tells you, here are the projects that you
can choose from,
cuz the one you chose is not listed here.
So it's hello-angular.
But that red is scary, though.
Imagine seeing all that red
[LAUGH] on the first example.
[LAUGH] Not a good time.
All right, super awesome.
So we got that, so
let's go back to my browser, let's reload.
Okay, so we're most of the way there for
this example.
We've got our ordered list, but
I asked you to do one thing here.
So let's go back.
That's why, pressed the wrong button.
Okay, in the same file,
we need to update the styles to use
Roman numerals instead of bullets.
Now, I care about you, so
I gave you the styles for this already.
I don't wanna make your life harder.
Friends at home, I care about you,
watch this, all right?
So we just need to apply style to our ul.
So let's do that in
app.component under styles.
So I'm seeing ol, so
we do ol, same exact syntax,
ol, and then you put your list-style-type.
Now, some of you may have
some experience with HTML and
know that you can also specify it at
the ol level and the HTML as an attribute.
I know you can do that, I know.
You don't have to yell at
me about that on the chat.
I know you can do that,
I want you to try it in CSS, okay?
Don't be mad at me.
So the reason that you can see all the
highlighting in this template like this is
because of the Angular Language Service.
That's why I was saying if you install
that plug in, it gives you highlighting in
a template and then it'll also do some
other really nice features that'll
make our development life, our development
experience more ergonomic, okay?
So now, in my styles, I have my ol.
And then the Angular CLI
with that build server,
you see where it says reloading clients?
It does a refresh, but
temper your expectations because it's
not gonna maintain state right now, right?
So we don't do full HMR yet.
You can enable HMR, like hot module
replacement, where you can maintain state,
navigation, etc.
We can maintain your navigation,
but it's going to reset your state,
right, cuz it's just reloading
the page for you, okay?
But we are working on a better
HMR experience right now.
All right, and then we got it, let's go.
This feels so good to me.
You know why?
Because we just did two things.
We did three things, we ran a project,
we updated the template,
and we updated the styles,
with the skills we already have.
Really, really nice experience.